How much will I be reimbursed for my property damaged by the Dixie Fire?
The Direct Payments for Community Recovery (DP4CR) program makes offers based
on an objective framework based on square footage, acreage, and available
insurance. The amount of your offer is based on the destroyed property and
your relationship to the property. Offer figures can be viewed at the
[DP4CR](https://www.dp4cr.com/) program site at
[www.DP4CR.com](http://www.DP4CR.com).

We make offers and require supporting documentation based on your relationship
to the property. We will only make one offer per destroyed property, unless
the property was rented, in which case PG&E will make one offer to the owners
and one offer to the non-owner residents.

At this time, the DC4PR program is only open to individuals whose homes were
destroyed in the Dixie Fire. Individuals with partial damages, and businesses,
are not eligible for the DP4CR program, but can still file a claim through
[Understanding PG&E claims policy and
process](https://www.pge.com/en/account/customer-
service/claims.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_claims).

The goal of the DP4CR program is to pay claimants within 75 days of submitting
a complete claim and 30 days after they accept an offer. Anyone whose home was
destroyed by the Dixie Fire may submit a claim through the program.
Settlements reached through the DP4CR program will resolve all claims arising
from the Dixie Fire, including any previously filed PG&E claims and lawsuits.

You may submit a single claim for any property with a home destroyed by the
fire, whether you owned or lived in, i.e., rented, that home. If a single
property, as defined by Assessorâ€™s Parcel Number, or APN, has multiple
structures, you should submit only one claim for all structures on that
property.

If you have any additional questions, please call **1-800-743-5000.**



