I have not received my bill yet. Where is it? 
 Bill delays can be a result of a variety of situations, including delays with
the postal service.

We recommend creating an online account so you can see your bills as soon as
they are ready to view. You can sign up for an online account by visiting our
[**Manage Your Account
Online**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login) page.

_Paperless Billing:_

If you have not received your paper bill at a time you normally receive it,
you may be enrolled in our paperless billing option.

To view your bill, log into [**Your
Account**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes&_ga=2.247308676.1426975518.1612984638-109012148.1612984638#login)
and select the View Current Bill link.

To unenroll from paperless billing, while logged into [**Your
Account:**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes&_ga=2.247308676.1426975518.1612984638-109012148.1612984638#login)

  * Click the Edit Profile & Alerts box in the top right. 
  * Scroll down to the bottom of the screen and click on the alert that says Go Paperless. 
  * Here you can turn on or off the option for paperless billing.

Other reasons for a delayed bill statement could be due to a recent rate plan
change, solar system or battery storage system being approved, or a network
connection failure.

If your bill is not available online and you have not received it in the mail,
call our Customer Service Department at [**1-800-743-5000**]() and a Customer
Service Representative can research the likely reason for the delay.

 

 Why is my electric bill so high? 
 Your electric bill will fluctuate depending on the season, a change in
lifestyle or the addition of family members.

To understand your usage and learn how to save on your energy bill:

  * Sign in to [Your Account](https://www.pge.com/?WT.mc_id=Vanity_myenergy)
  * Select the link for Energy Usage Details.
  * Select Compare my bills for a quick analysis
  * Select Energy Usage Details to analyze your usage by month, day and intraday, and learn how weather affects your usage.![Your account dashboard showing where to locate Energy Usage and Details](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB6a&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJo)

 

 Why haven't I received a bill? 
 Although we continuously send more than 99 percent of bills out on time,
delays can occur due to a technical issue or an update to certain systems. In
these cases, your bill will be delayed. When this happens, PG&E works to
identify the cause of the delay, resolve the problem, and then send out your
bill.

**NOTE:** If you have not received your paper bill at a time you normally
receive it, you may be enrolled in our paperless billing option. To view your
bill, log into [Your Account](https://www.pge.com/) and select the View
Current Bill link.

If your bill is not available online and you have not received it in the mail,
you do not need to take any action at this time and we will not interrupt your
service while we address the cause of the delay.

For more information about our bill assistance programs, visit [Find help to
pay your bill or save energy](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-
assistance/financial-assistance.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_financialassistance) or
call **1-800-743-5000** to spread your payments over time or apply for
financial assistance.

 

 Why did I get another bill after I stopped service? 
 If you recently stopped service but got another bill, it is likely your final
bill. Final charges take approximately a week to process after the stop date
requested. The detail page of your bill will reflect the date you stopped
being charged for the usage. The bill due date will be three weeks after the
bill processing date.

**EXAMPLE:** Stop date requested 12/14/2022. Final bill processed 12/23/2022.
Bill due date 01/13/2022.

![Bill showing bill cycle close date statement date and bill due
date](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB7a&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrE7)

 

 Why did I get a letter informing me I was under or over billed? 
 On a rare occasion, some customers experience what is referred to as a crossed
meter. This means that our billing system had two meters switched and billing
was being sent to the wrong person. Because no two households have identical
usage, this will result in a customer being over or under billed. The letter
you received will indicate if you have been over or under billed.

If you have been over billed, you will see a credit applied to your next
billing cycle. These credits can go back as far as three years if the issue
was in place for that long. In the case you were underbilled, you will receive
an adjusted bill that is higher than you would typically expect. As a consumer
protection, we will only back date billing three months.

If you receive a corrected bill and you are not able to pay it in one month,
you are able to set up a payment arrangement to spread out the balance. For
guidance on setting up a [payment arrangement online, follow our
guide](https://pgesupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/12559719187085) in the
Help Center. You can also call **1-800-743-5000** and set up an arrangement
with the IVR.

 

 What is an estimated bill? 
 An estimated bill is a bill that PG&E has created based on estimated usage and
not your actual usage. The bill can be estimated for various reasons, for
example:

  * Your meter could not be communicating
  * There could be access issues preventing us from reading the meter 
  * You may have an analog meter read every other month

PG&E uses the following information to provide the most accurate estimate for
your bill:

  * Your usage from the same time period within the last 12 months and/or available historical meter readings for the address
  * If you are part of any discount programs such as CARE, FERA, or Medical Baseline you will still get your discount applied to the estimated bill  

If your bill is estimated, keep payments on schedule to avoid a future large
bill covering several months. If the estimated amount is higher than your
actual usage, you will receive an adjustment on the amount overpaid as a
credit, and it will go toward your next bill(s). If the amount estimated is
lower than your usage, any additional amount owed will appear on your adjusted
statement.

If you are unable to pay your estimated bill, you have options:

  * You can check to see if you are eligible for a payment arrangement or extension. This can be done online by signing into [Your Account](http://www.pge.com). If you don't have an online account, you can create one
  * You can also make a partial payment of the balance until you receive the adjusted bill

 

 Why is my bill so high? 
 Many factors can lead to a higher than anticipated bill. Most commonly, high
usage, missed payments, and lost discounts contribute to high bills. Less
common causes include bill cycle length, delayed bills, and seasonal
crossover. PG&E offers a bill analyzer bot that will analyze your account for
the most common causes of high bills. You will need to authenticate your
account with your cell phone number and house number. [Visit us today for an
analysis](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-assistance/bill-analyzer-
chatbot.html) .

We are committed to working with you to provide a reasonable time to pay your
balance. If you need help paying your bill, please visit [Find help to pay
your bill or save energy](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-
assistance/financial-assistance.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_financialassistance) or
call us at **1-800-743-5000** to spread your payments over time or apply for
financial assistance.

 

 I share an apartment, how can I make my roommate pay? 
 We want to help you and your roommate(s) manage your PG&E account. We
recommend each roommate’s name be added to the account to be financially
responsible, so that everyone is obligated to pay the bill on time and is
aware of any balance owed and the amount of energy used.

If you'd like to add your roommate(s) to your account, please call our
Customer Service Department at **1-800-743-5000.** Monday-Friday, 7 a.m. - 7
p.m. or Saturday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Both parties need to be on the phone call to
complete this transaction.

Two or more adults who occupy the same premises are jointly liable for all
bills for energy supplied, per Applications Section B of Rule 3 of our
**[Electric
Tariffs](https://www.pge.com/tariffs/assets/pdf/tariffbook/ELEC_RULES_3.pdf).**

Visit [Roommate Solutions](https://www.pge.com/en/account/manage-my-
account/specialized-customer-resources.html) for more tips and information.

 

 How do you estimate my bill? 
 PG&E uses the following information to provide the most accurate estimate:

  * Based on your usage from the same time period within the last 12 months and/or available historical meter readings for the address
  * If you are part of any discount programs such as CARE, FERA, or Medical Baseline you will still get your discount applied to the estimated bill
  * Weather patterns and usage trends

If your bill is estimated, keep payments on schedule to avoid a future large
bill covering several months. If the estimated amount is higher than your
actual usage, you will receive an adjustment on the amount overpaid as a
credit, and it will go toward your next bill(s). If the amount estimated is
lower than your usage, any additional amount owed will appear on your adjusted
statement.

 

 Why are you estimating my bill? 
 PG&E can estimate bills for various reasons:

  * The meter could not be communicating
  * There could be access issues preventing us from reading the meter
  * You may have an analog meter read every other month

If your bill is estimated, keep payments on schedule to avoid a future large
bill covering several months. If the estimated amount is higher than your
actual usage, you will receive an adjustment on the amount overpaid as a
credit, and it will go toward your next bill(s). If the amount estimated is
lower than your usage, any additional amount owed will appear on your adjusted
statement.

  
  

 

 How does electricity usage translate to bill charges? 
 The easiest way to understand the connection between usage and charges is to
view the fluctuation in a bar graph format.

You can see how your electricity usage translates to bill charges by logging
into [**Your Account**](https://m.pge.com/#login) and click on Energy Usage
Details.

In the Energy Usage Details, click on Energy Costs. Hover over one of the blue
bars within the graph to see the energy use and cost for that designated time
period.

Change the bill view drop down in the center of the page to get a Year View
(month by month), Bill View or Day View. You can also change the graph to
display your usage and/or charges for electricity and natural gas usage
separately or combined the two.

The average temperature in your area will appear on the graph relation to your
usage.

 

 Why does my collections notice only show my PG&E charges, and not the charges from my CCA? 
 PG&E can only disconnect for PG&E past due charges.

The 48-hour collection notice will have a line item for PG&E Delivery Charges
that are Past Due (red box). To avoid shut off, the amount in the red box will
need to be paid by the date indicated.

The minimum payment due to avoid disconnection is the amount in the red box,
however, you still owe your service provider for their portion of the total
balance.

Your TOTAL past due amount is the PG&E Delivery Charges Past Due plus the
Service Provider Charges Past Due.

Visit our **[Pay your PG&E Statement](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-
and-assistance.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_waystopay)** page for ways to pay your
bill and avoid shut off.

 

 Can I submit a claim for the Dixie Fire impacts to my property? 
 Yes, if your home has been destroyed by the Dixie Fire and you would like to
submit a claim, please visit our [Direct Payments for Community Recovery
](https://www.dp4cr.com/)website ([www.DP4CR.com](http://www.DP4CR.com)).
Beginning May 2, 2022, the program gives eligible claimants a settlement offer
based on a standardized and objective framework and is intended to expedite
payment to impacted individuals.

With an easy-to-use website, individuals who lost their home in the fire can
submit a claim form and supporting documents, and if they accept PG&E's
settlement offer receive an expedited payment. Our goal is to resolve claims
within 75 days from the time individuals submit a complete claim.

To learn more visit our [Direct Payments for Community Recovery
](https://www.dp4cr.com/)website ([www.DP4CR.com](http://www.DP4CR.com)). The
DP4CR program is funded and operated by PG&E, and you can access the program
website through [Understanding PG&E claims policy and
process](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/customer-
service/help/claims/claims.page?WT.mc_id=Vanity_claims). If you have any
questions, please call 1-800-743-5000.

 

 What steps do I need to take to file a claim if my house was destroyed by the Dixie Fire? 
 For homes destroyed by the Dixie fire, ‌PG&E’s Direct Payments for Community
Recovery (DP4CR) Program is designed to easily and quickly compensate
individuals whose homes, including mobile homes, and rental homes, were
destroyed by wildfire. Steps to submit a claim and the required documentation
can be found on the [Direct Payments for Community
Recovery](https://www.dp4cr.com/) webpage
([www.DP4CR.com](http://www.DP4CR.com)).

Individuals whose homes were destroyed by the fire may begin submitting claims
at the program website beginning on May 2, 2022.

Summary of the Process:

  1. Prepare to make your claim: check your eligibility, identify your co-claimants (or all members of your household), and gather documentation such as proof of identity and square footage of your home.
  2. Submit an electronic claim form with supporting documentation via this website.
  3. We review your claim to confirm your eligibility and identity; the details of your property including square footage and acreage; and your insurance coverage. We use this information to make you a settlement offer based on a standardized and objective valuation framework.
  4. Once you accept the offer and all co-claimants sign a settlement agreement releasing all of your claims related to the fire, we quickly pay you the full amount of our offer.

Get started at [www.DP4CR.com](http://www.DP4CR.com), and check the page for
the latest updates. If you have any additional questions, please call
1-800-743-5000.

 

 Where can I see copies of bill inserts? 
 To see copies of bill inserts, sign in to [**Your
Account**](https://www.pge.com/?WT.mc_id=Vanity_myenergy). Under View & Pay,
select the link for View Bill Inserts.

Alternatively, view our [**Bill
Inserts**](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/your-account/your-
bill/understand-your-bill/bill-inserts/pge-bill-inserts.page) page to view
standard bill inserts.

_Note: Your particular bill inserts may be different from the standard inserts
based on your individual situation._

 

 Will my credit be affected if my PG&E service is shut off? 
 No, as long as you do not cancel your account, your credit will not be
affected by a shut off. Active accounts are not referred to a collection
agency. As long as your residential account remains active, any late payments
will not be referred to a collection agency. However, a reconnection fee and
deposit may be required to restore services.

 

 What does PG&E do to reach out to customers before disconnecting (shutting off) service? 
 We understand these are difficult financial times, and we urge our customers
to call us or use our online programs as soon as they know they will have
trouble paying their bill. Disconnection of service is an action that PG&E
does not take lightly. It is a last resort taken after more than a 60-day
process involving many attempts to work with customers to resolve their bills.

Customers are encouraged to enroll in assistance programs at any point in the
process below:

![image of timeline of actions taken by PG&E before shutting off a customer
for non-
payment](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GBCT&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJE)

If you are experiencing a financial hardship or need some extra time paying
your bill, please visit our **[Find Help to Pay Your Bill or Save
Energy](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-assistance/financial-
assistance.html?)** page.

 

 How much will I be reimbursed for my property damaged by the Dixie Fire? 
 The Direct Payments for Community Recovery (DP4CR) program makes offers based
on an objective framework based on square footage, acreage, and available
insurance. The amount of your offer is based on the destroyed property and
your relationship to the property. Offer figures can be viewed at the
[DP4CR](https://www.dp4cr.com/) program site at
[www.DP4CR.com](http://www.DP4CR.com).

We make offers and require supporting documentation based on your relationship
to the property. We will only make one offer per destroyed property, unless
the property was rented, in which case PG&E will make one offer to the owners
and one offer to the non-owner residents.

At this time, the DC4PR program is only open to individuals whose homes were
destroyed in the Dixie Fire. Individuals with partial damages, and businesses,
are not eligible for the DP4CR program, but can still file a claim through
[Understanding PG&E claims policy and
process](https://www.pge.com/en/account/customer-
service/claims.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_claims).

The goal of the DP4CR program is to pay claimants within 75 days of submitting
a complete claim and 30 days after they accept an offer. Anyone whose home was
destroyed by the Dixie Fire may submit a claim through the program.
Settlements reached through the DP4CR program will resolve all claims arising
from the Dixie Fire, including any previously filed PG&E claims and lawsuits.

You may submit a single claim for any property with a home destroyed by the
fire, whether you owned or lived in, i.e., rented, that home. If a single
property, as defined by Assessor’s Parcel Number, or APN, has multiple
structures, you should submit only one claim for all structures on that
property.

If you have any additional questions, please call **1-800-743-5000.**

 

 I just moved into a new home. Can I get an average bill cost? 
 For privacy reasons, PG&E does not provide average bill costs. You can monitor
your usage online by logging in to [Your
Account](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/your-account/account-
management/manage-your-account/manage-your-account.page?) on
[PGE.com](http://PGE.com). For more information on setting up energy alerts
and understanding your usage, visit [Energy Usage
Details](https://www.pge.com/en/save-energy-and-money/energy-usage-and-
tips.html?).

 

 Am I paying more if my bill is estimated? 
 If your billing is estimated, PG&E works hard to estimate your usage as
accurately as possible. PG&E uses a complex formula that includes your own
historical usage, rate information, and weather trends to bill as close to
accurate as possible. However, if your actual energy usage is higher than the
previous year, the billed amount (estimated bill) could be lower than if you
received a bill for your actual usage. Conversely, if your usage is lower than
it was the previous year, the billed amount (estimated bill) may be higher
than if you received a bill for your actual usage.  
  
If your bill is estimated, keep payments on schedule to avoid a future large
bill covering several months. If the estimated amount is higher than your
actual usage, you will receive an adjustment on the amount overpaid as a
credit, and it will go toward your next bill(s). If the amount estimated is
lower than your usage, any additional amount owed will appear on your adjusted
statement.

 

 I am a sub-metered tenant and I think my landlord is not billing me correctly. Who do I call? 
 If you are a sub-metered customer (master-meter) and you have a complaint or
question on how your property owner or manager is billing you, we recommend
you first work with your property owner/manager to resolve your questions
and/or concerns.

If you are still unsatisfied after speaking to your property owner or manager,
please visit the [**California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) Consumer
Affairs Branch**](https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/about-cpuc/divisions/news-and-
public-information-office/consumer-affairs-branch) page.

 

 Why does the California Climate credit show up as a previous unpaid balance on my bill? 
 The California Climate Credit may appear as an unpaid balance on your account
in the days between when the credit is applied and when your April or October
bill is generated.

No action is necessary, and you should see resolution when you receive your
April or October statement.

Visit our [California Climate Credit](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-
and-assistance/understand-your-bill/california-climate-credit.html) page for
more information.

 

 Where can I find my Detail of Bill Statements? 
 You can download these statements by logging into [**Your
Account**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login).

If you have never registered your account, register [**Your Account
Online**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#registration).

Once you have logged in:

  1. Click on the dropdown arrow next to your account number at the upper left corner
  2. Click on MY ACCOUNT & SERVICES
  3. Scroll down to the Gas and electric service information section to locate your service agreement ID(s).
  4. Click on the Service Agreement ID# you would like to view
  5. You will be directed to the SERVICE DETAILS page 
     * Scroll to the bottom of the page to DOWNLOAD DETAIL OF BILL
     * Click on SELECT BILL DATE. This will display the date of available Detail of Bill Statements to download
     * Click on the desired Detail of Bill Statement to download it as a PDF

![Your Account dashboard banner with account number drop down open to reveal
my accounts and services
option](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3s&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJL)

![Service ID shown
online](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3s&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJF)![Service
details with arrow pointing to detail of bill drop
down](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3s&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJH)

 

 Can I cancel by service with a CTA? 
 If you wish to cancel service with a Core Transport Agent (CTA) and resume
bundled services with PG&E, you will need to first contact the CTA to
terminate services with them. PG&E is unable to cancel a contract or guarantee
that the CTA will cancel. Check your bill for the correct contact information
for your CTA. Once the CTA cancels your contract, you will automatically come
back to PG&E as a bundled customer, no further action is required.

If you have reached out to your CTA and are unsatisfied with the CTA's
resolution:

  * Contact the Consumer Affairs Branch of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC):  **1-800-649-7570**
  * **or** Log a complaint online with the CPUC at: <http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/complaints/>  

Visit our **[Core Gas Aggregation
Program](https://www.pge.com/en/account/alternate-energy-providers/core-gas-
aggregation.html)** page for more answers to your Core Transport Agent (CTA)
questions.

 

 When will I receive my delayed bill? 
 Most bill delays are due to system updates, which may take some time. As a
result, we do not currently have an estimated date for when your bill will be
ready. Once those system updates are complete, we will send your bill to you.

We are committed to working with you to provide a reasonable time to pay your
balance. If you need help paying your bill, please visit [Find help to pay
your bill or save energy](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-
assistance/financial-assistance.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_financialassistance) or
call us at **1-800-743-5000** to spread your payments over time or apply for
financial assistance.

 

 Where can I find and/or download a copy of my old bills? 
 You can access up to 24 months of bill and payment by logging into **[Your
Account](https://www.pge.com/?WT.mc_id=Vanity_myenergy)**.

After signing in, click Bill and Payment History.

Scroll to the desired bill and click Download PDF

![Your account dashboard with arrow pointing to bill and payment
history](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3w&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrK4)![Arrow
pointing to view bill
pdf](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3w&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrK5)

 

 What can I do if I can't pay my estimated bill? 
 If you are unable to pay your estimated bill, you have options.

PG&E offers several programs to help pay your energy bill:

  * **Payment Arrangements:** You can break up your balance into manageable payments in amounts and dates that fit your financial situation. Sign into [**Your Account**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login) and scroll down to Payment Options. Select Payment Arrangement and then Installments. Installments allow you to spread your current balance over several months for up to 12 installments. Choose the option that works best for you. You must have your name on the account to request a payment arrangement.
  * **Extended Due Date** lets you pay the full amount of your current balance within the next 30 days. Sign into [**Your Account**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login) and scroll down to Payment Options. Select Payment Arrangement and then Extension. Simply input the date on which you want to pay the full amount. You must have your name on the account to request an extended due date.
  * **Relief for Energy Assistance through Community Help (REACH): **The REACH program helps low-income-qualified customers who experience uncontrollable or unforeseen financial hardships. For complete program details, visit**[REACH](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-assistance/financial-assistance/relief-for-energy-assistance-through-community-help.html). **You must live at the property to quality for REACH.
  * **Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP): **This federally funded program provides financial assistance to help offset eligible household energy costs, including heating, cooling and home weatherization expenses. For more information, visit **[LIHEAP](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-assistance/financial-assistance/low-income-home-energy-assistance-program.html). **You must live at the property to qualify for LIHEAP.

If your name is not on the PG&E account for which you are requesting financial
assistance, please call us at **1-800-743-5000** to be added.

  
  
  

 

 Why is my gas bill so high? 
 **Why is my gas bill so high?**

Higher natural gas prices and increased energy use during colder months can
lead to higher bills. Natural gas market prices have increase nationwide. In
addition to these higher prices, lower temperatures have caused California to
use about 26% more natural gas than the five-year November historical average.
An average PG&E gas and electric customer can expect to see an increase of
about 18% this winter over last.

We’re taking a number of actions to reduce the impact of market conditions on
our customers. Visit **[PG&E
Currents](https://www.pgecurrents.com/articles/3613-customers-heating-costs-
expected-increase-winter-higher-natural-gas-demand-west-coast)** to learn more
about how PG&E can help you manage your energy use and costs.

Get tips and tools to reduce usage and save money this winter. We offer
financial assistance programs to help customers pay bills. Visit **[Ways to
Save This Winter](https://www.pge.com/en/save-energy-and-money/energy-usage-
and-tips/residential-energy-savings-tips/winter-energy-savings-
tips.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_winter)** to find help managing your gas bill.

Your gas bill will fluctuate depending on natural gas prices and increase
energy use, but may also change due to the season, a change in lifestyle or
the addition of family members.

Some commonly used appliances that consume natural gas are:

  * Clothes Dryers
  * Water Heaters
  * Furnace (heating)

These appliances usually do not consume an abundance of gas usage throughout
the summer months, but usage typically increases during winter or cooler
months and may cause an increase in your bill.

To understand your usage and learn how to save on your energy bill:

  * Sign in to **[Your Account](https://www.pge.com/?WT.mc_id=Vanity_myenergy)**
  * Select the link for My Usage
  * Select Compare my bills for a quick analysis

Select My Usage Details to analyze your usage by month and day, and learn how
weather affects your usage.

 

 Why is my bill so much higher this month over last month? 
 If this month is May or November, you will notice a difference in your bill
from the previous month (April or October) because of the California Climate
Credit. This credit is applied twice a year, in April and October. Many
customers believe their lower bill is a result of the weather changing during
these months, and in part it is, but this credit can be up to $80 if you
receive both gas and electric service from PG&E and so significantly reduces
your bill. For more information on the [California Climate Credit, visit us
online.](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/your-account/your-
bill/understand-your-bill/understand-your-energy-statement/california-climate-
credit.page)

 

 How do I file a claim with PG&E? 
 If you believe PG&E should pay for a loss you have experienced, PG&E provides
two paths for compensation:

If you are a residential customer who has gone without power for at least 48
hours because of severe storm conditions, you may qualify for an automatic
payment under our Safety Net program. This program provides a payment of $25 -
$100, which we pay automatically approximately 60 days after the storm outage.
Do not file a claim for these payments: PG&E will calculate them
automatically.

Learn more about**[compensation for extended
outages.](https://www.pge.com/en/outages-and-safety/outage-preparedness-and-
support/general-outage-resources/outage-compensation-programs.html)**

For other losses, you can **[file a claim with
PG&E](https://www.pge.com/en/account/customer-service/claims.html?). **

Covered losses due to PG&E actions include:

  *     * **For property damage.**
    * **For personal injury.**
    * **For lost wages.** (NOTE: You cannot receive compensation for the time spent pursuing your claim)
    * **For miscellaneous losses.**
    * **For food spoilage**

Filing your claim online will speed processing and settlement.

 

 How can I monitor my bill during the month? 
 You can monitor your usage and projected bill amount by logging into [Your
Account](https://www.pge.com) and reviewing Energy Usage Details. Projected
bills are available after the first week of your billing cycle. Additionally,
you can set up Billing Alerts to receive notifications if your bill is
anticipated to be above a threshold of your choosing. Steps for each process
are shown below.

To view your projected bill:

  1. Sign into Your Account
  2. Select Energy Usage Details

![Your account dashboard showing where to locate Energy Usage and
Details](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MDN&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrHG)

3\. From the drop down menu, select "Projected Bill"

![Energy Usage details drop down with arrow pointing to projected
bill](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MDN&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrHF)

To set up billing alerts:

1\. Sign in to Your Account

2\. Select Edit Profile and Alerts![Edit profile and alerts button circled in
banner at top of My Account
dashboard](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MDN&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrHD)

3\. Scroll to Alert Settings and select Energy Use

![Alert settings with arrow pointing to Energy Use
alert](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MDN&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrHE)

4\. Set your desired alerts and click "Save Changes"

 

 Do I need to pay my bill if it is estimated? 
 Yes, you still need to pay your bill if it is estimated. The estimated bill is
designed to keep payments on schedule to avoid a future larger bill that
covers multiple months, which may be more difficult to pay and may lead to
service interruption. If the estimated amount is higher than your actual
usage, you will receive an adjustment on the amount overpaid as a credit, and
it will go toward your next bill(s). If the amount estimated is lower than
your usage, any additional amount owed will appear on your adjusted statement.

If you are unable to pay your estimated bill, you have options.

You can check and see if you are eligible for a payment arrangement or
extension. This can be done online by signing into [Your
Account](http://www.pge.com). If you don't have an online account, you can
create one. You can also make a partial payment of the balance until you
receive the adjusted bill.

 

 Why did my PG&E bill change? 
 Energy bills can go up or down for a variety of reasons beyond your control
like the weather, state regulations and commodity prices.

You can rest assured that **we do not** :

  * **Control the market prices** for gas and electricity.
  * **Mark up the cost of the gas and electricity** that we purchase on behalf of our customers.
  * **Make more money when our customers use more gas or electricity.** [This is called decoupling](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/rate-plans/how-rates-work/learn-how-rates-are-set/how-pge-makes-money/how-pge-makes-money.page).
  * **Encourage customers to use more energy.** Our profits do not come from the energy we sell.

  

**We make a profit on:**

  * The cost of building infrastructure (like powerlines) that delivers energy
  * How efficiently we run our business
  * Lowering our customers' energy use

**There are a few things you can control that may affect your bill, such as:**

  * The amount of energy you use
  * When you choose to use energy
  * Your rate plan
  * Enrolling in bill discount programs that you are eligible for

  

## Rate changes

  

Our gas and electric rates can change several times each year and are expected
to increase overall in 2023.  
All changes in rates need to be approved by the [California Public Utilities
CommissionOpens in new Window.](https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/) (CPUC). The CPUC
regulates utilities like PG&E.  
These changes include:

  * Increases in the cost of purchasing gas and electricity
  * Maintaining our pipes and wires

  

**The money from these rate increases allows us to support critical
investments and programs that:**

  * Make the electric grid and gas system safer and more reliable
  * Reduce wildfire risk
  * Enable energy efficiency and renewable energy
  * Provide eligible, low-income customers with discounted energy bills

  

## Annual gas and electric rate change

  

Customer gas and electric rates changed on January 1, 2023, as part of an
annual process called the “true-up” authorized by the California Public
Utilities Commission.  
These rate changes include charges for:

  * Gas and electric delivery
  * Electricity supply
  * State-mandated assistance programs for income-qualified customers, energy efficiency and public-interest research and development.

  

As part of this year’s true-up, average residential non-CARE gas bills
decreased by 4.6 percent. This does not include natural gas supply costs.  
Average residential non-CARE electric (non-Community Choice Aggregator or
Direct Access) bills increased by approximately 3.4 percent.

 

 What is PG&E doing to make rates and bills more affordable? 
 ### Cutting costs and improving operational efficiencies

  * Working to keep future bill impacts at or below assumed inflation (2 to 4 percent)
  * Generating more than $970 million by selling licensing agreements to wireless providers to attach equipment to transmission towers
  * Moving powerlines underground to reduce recurring maintenance costs
  * Pursuing federal funding to offset costs of making the energy system safer and more climate resilient
  * Saving $4.9 billion by streamlining how we plan our work and resources and renegotiating older contracts

### Helping you manage your energy use and costs

We are determined to help you save money on your bill no matter your income
level.  
  
We provide **resources, tools** and **rebates **to make sure you are on the
best rate for your household, and to help you lower your energy usage and
monthly bill:

  * [Rate plan choices](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/rate-plans/how-rates-work/find-my-best-rate-plan.page)
  * [Payment options](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/your-account/your-bill/ways-to-pay/ways-to-pay.page)
  * [Energy efficiency financingOpens in new Window.](https://gogreenfinancing.com/)
  * [Energy management tools](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/your-account/account-management/understand-your-energy-usage/understand-your-energy-usage.page)

### Offering [financial assistance
programs](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-money/help-paying-
your-bill/payment-assistance-overview/payment-assistance-overview.page) if you
are having a difficult time paying your bill:

  * **Relief for Energy Assistance through Community Help** ([REACH](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-money/help-paying-your-bill/one-time-assistance/reach/reach.page)) offers one time energy credit financial assistance to qualified customers with past due bills.
  * **Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program** ([LIHEAP](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-money/help-paying-your-bill/energy-reduction-and-weatherization/liheap/liheap.page)) offers up to $1,000 to pay eligible household energy costs.
  * **Arrearage Management Program** ([AMP](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-money/help-paying-your-bill/payment-assistance-overview/payment-assistance-overview.page)) offers up to $8,000 in unpaid balance forgiveness, if a customer is enrolled in the California Alternate Rates for Energy ([CARE](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-money/help-paying-your-bill/longer-term-assistance/care/care.page)) program or Family Electric Rate Assistance ([FERA](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-money/help-paying-your-bill/longer-term-assistance/care/care.page)) program, owes a specific bill amount and is more than 90 days past due.

We have given credits totaling **$548** million to **654,000 customers** from
the state’s California Arrearage Payment Program. This helped to lower past-
due balances as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have also forgiven
nearly $175 million of consumer debt from past due bills, allowing customers a
fresh start after hard times.

### Working with our partners on ways to lower energy costs, like:

  * Requesting federal funds to help with some of the costs of making our infrastructure more climate resilient.
  * Advocating with our regulator and state lawmakers to make energy bills more predictable, simplified, and affordable.

 

 I am a sub-metered tenant; how do I find out how my bill is calculated? 
 Please work with your property manager or property owner to understand how you
are being billed. If you need additional information, you can review our
tariffs related to Mobile Home Park service.

Visit [**Electric Mobile Home
Tariff**](https://www.pge.com/tariffs/assets/pdf/tariffbook/ELEC_SCHEDS_ET%20\(Sch\).pdf)
page.

Visit [**Gas Mobile Home
Tariff**](https://www.pge.com/tariffs/assets/pdf/tariffbook/GAS_SCHEDS_GT.pdf)
page.

 

 What do I do if I receive another person's bill? 
 If you have received another customer’s bill via postal mail, please write
“NOT AT THIS ADDRESS” on the front of the envelope and place it in your
outbound mail.

If you have received another customer’s bill via email, please call
**1-800-743-5000** to report it and forward the email to
[PGEPrivacy@pge.com.](mailto:PGEPrivacy@pge.com)

Customer Privacy is an obligation we take seriously. Visit
[www.pge.com/privacy](http://www.pge.com/privacy) to view our privacy policy.

 

 Do I still get my discounts when my bills are estimated? 
 If you are part of any discount programs such as CARE, FERA, or Medical
Baseline, you will still get your discount applied to the estimated bill. If
an adjustment is required to your billing when the estimated bills are
corrected, any discounts you receive will also be corrected.

 

 Why did I receive another person's bill? 
 The most common reason customers receive another person's bill is that it is
the previous resident’s final bill. Not all customers provide PG&E with their
forwarding mailing address so we will send the invoice to that resident’s last
known address.

Like other postal mail situations, it could simply be a mistake in delivery
and may belong to a neighbor or someone with a similar service address.

In rare situations, some customers may not have completed their start of
service when they moved to a new address, and services for the new address may
still be in the previous resident’s name. If you want to confirm your service,
visit us [online ](http://www.pge.com) or call **1-800-743-5000.**  
  
Please do not open another customers bill.

 

 Why are my winter bills higher than previous months? 
 Cold weather can mean higher heating costs to keep your home comfortable. This
winter, a number of our customers may experience higher monthly bills due to
increased energy use in the colder months and various rate changes.

For tips to reduce your energy usage and costs, visit our **[Easy Ways to Save
This Winter](https://www.pge.com/en/save-energy-and-money/energy-usage-and-
tips/residential-energy-savings-tips/winter-energy-savings-tips.html?)** page.

Higher natural gas prices and increased energy use during colder months can
lead to higher bills. Natural gas market prices have increase nationwide. In
addition to these higher prices, lower temperatures have caused California to
use about 26% more natural gas than the five-year November historical average.
An average PG&E gas and electric customer can expect to see an increase of
about 18% this winter over last.

We’re taking a number of actions to reduce the impact of market conditions on
our customers. Visit **[PG&E
Currents](https://www.pgecurrents.com/articles/3613-customers-heating-costs-
expected-increase-winter-higher-natural-gas-demand-west-coast) **to learn more
about how PG&E can help you manage your energy use and costs.

Get tips and tools to reduce usage and save money this winter. We offer
financial assistance programs to help customers pay bills. Visit **[Ways to
Save This Winter](https://www.pge.com/en/save-energy-and-money/energy-usage-
and-tips/residential-energy-savings-tips/winter-energy-savings-
tips.html?WT.mc_id=Vanity_winter) **to find help managing your gas bill.

Your gas bill will fluctuate depending on natural gas prices and increase
energy use, but may also change due to the season, a change in lifestyle or
the addition of family members.

Some commonly used appliances that consume natural gas are:

  * Clothes Dryers
  * Water Heaters
  * Furnace (heating)

These appliances usually do not consume an abundance of gas usage throughout
the summer months, but usage typically increases during winter or cooler
months and may cause an increase in your bill.

To understand your usage and learn how to save on your energy bill:

  * Sign in to **[Your Account](https://www.pge.com/?WT.mc_id=Vanity_myenergy)**
  * Select the link for My Usage
  * Select Compare my bills for a quick analysis

Select My Usage Details to analyze your usage by month and day, and learn how
weather affects your usage.

 

 Where can I find and download a copy of my current bill? 
 **To find and download a copy of your bill:**

  1. Sign in to [**Your Account**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login).
  2. Under the “Your Account” section of your dashboard, select “View Current Bill (PDF)” to view your most recent bill.
  3. To view up to 24 months of past bills, select “Bill & Payment History.”![Arrow pointing at View Current Bill PDF on Your Account dashboard](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3x&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrK3)

**You can also have a secure link to a PDF of your statement emailed to you
each month.**

  1. Sign in to [**Your Account**](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login).
  2. Click on Edit Profile & Alerts in the top right corner of your dashboard.
  3. Under “Billing & Payment Alerts,” scroll down to “Bill Ready to View” and be sure the yellow toggle is switched on.
  4. Select “PDF” as your preferred email type. If you leave the type as BASIC you will receive notification of a new bill, but you will need to log in to Your Account to view it.  
![bill ready to view
alert](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y000000GB3x&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrK2)

  5. Click on “Create or Reset your PDF password” and follow the instructions on the screen.
  6. Hit “Submit.”
  7. IMPORTANT: Hit “Save Changes” at the bottom of the page.

 

 How do I dispute my bill? 
 If you feel you have been billed in error, or you would like to discuss your
bill in detail, please contact our Customer Service team at **1-800-743-5000**
, Monday through Friday 7:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m. and Saturday 8:00 a.m.
through 5:00 p.m. One of our Customer Service Representatives will review your
bill and help to answer your questions and/or concerns.

You can find answers to many common billing inquiries at **[Understand Your
Bill](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-assistance/understand-your-
bill.html?).**

 

 My refund check is dated over 90 days, what do I do? 
 If your refund check is dated over 90 days, or if you have lost your refund
check, please contact our Customer Service Department and one of our Customer
Service Representatives will assist in requesting a replacement.

Residential Customer Service Department: [**1-800-743-5000**](), Monday –
Friday, 7 a.m. – 7 p.m. and Saturday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.

Business Customer Service Department: [**1-800-468-4743**](), Monday – Friday,
7 a.m. – 6 p.m.

If you have a refund check that is over 3 years old you will need to inquire
on unclaimed property by calling [**1-800-992-4647**]() or for outside CA
[**916-323-2827**]() OR visiting the State's web site at
[**http://www.sco.ca.gov/**](http://www.sco.ca.gov/).

 

 Why am I being charged a delivery charge? 
 The delivery portion of your electric and gas bill covers the cost of getting
the applicable services to you. For electric service, this includes the
building and maintaining power lines, meters, billing systems, etc. that get
the electricity from where it is generated to your home or business.
Similarly, for gas, this includes the building and maintenance of the
pipelines, meters, and billing systems used to get gas to your home. If you
see a separate line item on page one of your bill for delivery, it is likely
that you have a third party providing the generation of your electricity or
procurement of your gas. Although you always pay for delivery, when a third
party is present, these charges are separated out.

 

 How can I see bill inserts if I receive paperless bills? 
 If you receive paperless bills and would like to view the bill inserts, you
can access current and past inserts online.

Residential and Business customers can view current and past bill inserts by
visiting our**[Bill Inserts](https://www.pge.com/en/account/billing-and-
assistance/bill-inserts.html)** page.

 

 Will I be required to pay my bill all at once when I receive it? 
 We are committed to working with you to provide a reasonable time to pay your
balance. If you need help paying your bill, please visit [Find help to pay
your bill or save energy](https://www.pge.com/en_US/residential/save-energy-
money/help-paying-your-bill/payment-assistance-overview/payment-assistance-
overview.page?WT.mc_id=Vanity_financialassistance) or call us at
**1-800-743-5000** to spread your payments over time or apply for financial
assistance.

 

 How do I set up bill forecast alerts? 
 A bill forecast alert will send you an alert if your monthly bill is projected
to be higher than a pre-set dollar amount based on your usage. To set up a
bill forecast alert, follow the steps below.

1\. Log in to **[Your
Account](https://m.pge.com/?WT.pgeac=Nav_yourAccountRes#login)**.

2\. Click Edit Profile & Alerts

3\. Scroll to alert settings

4\. Select the Energy Use option

5\. Click the Set your Bill Forecast Alert button

6\. Select YES to turn on alerts

7\. Select Save Changes at the bottom of the screen

![Edit profile and alerts button circled in banner at top of My Account
dashboard](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MIX&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJ4)![Alert
settings with arrow pointing to Energy use
alert](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MIX&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJ0)![Picture
of the bill forcast alert
setting](/servlet/rtaImage?eid=ka08Y0000016MIX&feoid=00N1M00000FFYIt&refid=0EM8Y00000BDrJ3)

 

 How long is my refund check valid? 
 Refund checks are valid for 90 days from the issue date.

If your refund check is dated over 90 days, or if you have lost your refund
check, please contact our Customer Service Department and one of our Customer
Service Representatives will assist in requesting a replacement.

Residential Customer Service Department: [**1-800-743-5000**](), Monday –
Friday, 7 a.m. – 7 p.m. and Saturday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.

Business Customer Service Department: [**1-800-468-4743**](), Monday – Friday,
7 a.m. – 6 p.m.

If you have a refund check that is over 3 years old you will need to inquire
on unclaimed property by calling [**1-800-992-4647**]() or for outside CA
[**916-323-2827**]() OR visiting the State's web site at
**<http://www.sco.ca.gov/>**.

 

 